[Snackbar] Display stacked Snackbars (#31991)
mui/material-ui: docs/data/material/components/stacked-snackbars/stacked-snackbars.md

---
product: material-ui
title: Stacked snackbars React component
components: SnackbarsProvider
materialDesign: https://material.io/components/snackbars
waiAria: https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.1/#alert
---

> # Stacked snackbars

Author: Done by Danilo in https://github.com/mui/material-ui/pull/31991/commits/7a351f66c7efecb43be56c34a782349da7494594

---
product: material-ui
title: Stacked snackbars React component
components: SnackbarsProvider
materialDesign: https://material.io/components/snackbars
waiAria: https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.1/#alert
---

# Stacked snackbars

<p class="description">The <code>SnackbarsProvider</code> component and <code>useSnackbars</code> hook allow you to display multiple stacked snackbars.</p>

{{"component": "modules/components/ComponentLinkHeader.js"}}

:::info
ℹ️ Note that Material Design doesn't advocate for this behavior, as seen in [their snackbar documentation](https://material.io/components/snackbars#usage).
However, given this is a common pattern seen in multiple webapps, Material UI allows deisgners and developers to break away from that guideline.
:::

## Usage

To display multiple snackbars, wrap your application with the `SnackbarsProvider` component.

> That's what will enable you to use the `useSnackbars` hook.

Reviewer: Replace "enable" with "lets" and shift to present tense.

```suggestion
This lets you implement the `useSnackbars` hook.
```

> If you're using `ThemeProvider`, wrap `SnackbarsProvider` below it, as follows:

Reviewer: I think it's more accurate to say it's "nested within" vs "wrapped below."

```suggestion
If you're using `ThemeProvider`, then `SnackbarsProvider` should be nested inside, as shown here:
```

```jsx
<ThemeProvider>
  <SnackbarsProvider>
    <YourApp />
  </SnackbarsProvider>
</ThemeProvider>
```

## Maximum snackbars

> The `limit` prop can be passed to `SnackbarsProvider` to limit the maximum number of snackbars displayed at the same time.

Reviewer: Rephrasing passive voice for active voice.

```suggestion
You can add the `limit` prop to`SnackbarsProvider` to set the maximum number of snackbars that can be displayed simultaneously.
```

{{"demo": "MaximumSnackbars.js", "defaultCodeOpen": false}}

## Basic stacked snackbars

> The `message` prop is used to show the snackbar message.

Reviewer: Rephrasing for active voice and clarity.

```suggestion
The `message` prop defines the snackbar's text.
```

> The `action` prop can be used to show content on the right side of the snackbar.

Reviewer: Rephrasing for active voice, and to be more specific (based on my understanding of this prop).

```suggestion
You can add the `action` prop to display additional content on the right side of the snackbar (e.g. a call to action such as an **OK** or **Undo** button).
```

> It can simply be a React Node or a callback function with a key parameter returning a React Node.

Reviewer: Cut "simply."

```suggestion
It can be a React Node, or a callback function with a key parameter that returns a React Node.
```

Use the `close` method to dismiss a specific snackbar by providing the `key` from the `action` callback argument.

> 

Reviewer: Let's add a line here to lead into the demo.

```suggestion

The following demo shows how to work with these basic features:

```

{{"demo": "SimpleSnackbars.js", "defaultCodeOpen": false}}

## Customization

> Use the `content` prop to customize the individual snackbars.

Reviewer: Lead into the demo.

```suggestion
Use the `content` prop to customize individual snackbars, as shown in this demo:
```

Reviewer: Customize how, exactly? Is this what makes it possible to add custom components (in this case the `<Alert>`) inside of an individual snackbar with this prop? I think we need to be more specific here.

Author: Yes, we can add any custom components, like here it's `<Alert />`. How about this:
```suggestion
Use the `content` prop to customize the individual snackbars. You can build your own custom component and render it by passing it to the `content` prop. 
The following demo renders the `Alert` component in the snackbar by passing it to the `content` prop:
```

{{"demo": "CustomizedSnackbars.js", "defaultCodeOpen": false}}

> ## Positioned snackbars

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Snackbar position
```

> You can control the position of an individual snackbar by specifying the `anchorOrigin` prop.

Reviewer: Active voice.

```suggestion
Add the 'anchorOrigin' prop to control the position of an individual snackbar.
```

> For even greater convience, pass the desired `anchorOrigin` value to the `SnackbarsProvider` component to set the position of all snackbars used globally.

Reviewer: Rephrasing to put the most important part first.

```suggestion
To set the position of all snackbars used globally, pass the desired `anchorOrigin` value to the `SnackbarsProvider` component.
```

> 

Reviewer: Add a line to introduce the demo.

```suggestion

The following demo shows how to control the positions of individual snackbars:

```

{{"demo": "PositionedSnackbars.js", "defaultCodeOpen": false}}

## Transition

> Similarly to positioning, use the`TransitionComponent` prop in an individual snackbar if you want to control that specific instance transition effect or use it in the `SnackbarsProvider` component to change it globally.

Reviewer: Move the most important part to the front and cut the unnecessary reference to the previous section so it stands on its own.

```suggestion
You can use the`TransitionComponent` prop to control the transition effects on individual snackbars, or use it in the `SnackbarsProvider` component for global effects.
```

> 

Reviewer: Introduce the demo.

```suggestion

The following demo shows how to apply unique transition effects to each individual snackbar in an app:

```

{{"demo": "TransitionedSnackbars.js", "defaultCodeOpen": false}}

## Props priority

> When the same props are supplied for both `show` method of `useSnackbars` and `SnackbarsProvider`, the ones added in the `show` method will have priority over those in `SnackbarsProvider`.

Reviewer: Rephrasing for clarity.

```suggestion
Props supplied to the `show` method of an individual snackbar take priority over those same props supplied globally to `<SnackbarsProvider>`, as the following demo illustrates:
```

{{"demo": "PropsPriority.js"}}

> In the above example, the `anchorOrigin`, `autoHideDuration` and `TransitionComponent` props in `show` method are applied taking preference over the `props` supplied on `SnackbarsProvider`.

Reviewer: This can be cut for redundancy.

```suggestion
```

## Global content and action props

> To have global consistency of the types of `action` and `content` every instance of snackbar has across your application, use the `ref` prop in the `SnackbarsProvider` component to apply the desired values to the aforementioned props.

Reviewer: Rephrasing to simplify the structure of clauses and pronouns.

```suggestion
You can add the `ref` prop to the `SnackbarsProvider` component to apply global values for the `action` and `content` props in all instances of snackbars across your entire application.
```

> This will save you from a lot of inefficient repetition if you'd to in each instance individually using the `show` method.

Reviewer: I think "defining default values" is more clear while also implying that it helps to prevent unnecessary repetition.

```suggestion
This lets you define default values rather than having to specify these props in every individual snackbar.
```

> 

Reviewer: Add a line to introduce the demos.

```suggestion

The following demos show how to implement global values for the `action` prop and `content` prop, respectively:

```
